So for our next object let's go ahead and create a coffee table.
I mean we've got the sofa let's create a coffee table here now in Blender we were able to run the game
and then walk around the room.
We can do that here in blender as well if you press shift F and then hit the tab key.
You can drop down to the ground now and I can move around with the mouse here and then press WASC D
and move around.
So I going to I'll try and just go in here and see how things look.
Doesn't look too bad.
I can move around here and to get a sense of what the room is going to feel like.
So it's kind of a nice thing to be able to do here in blender as well.
Yeah.
So why don't we put a coffee table right in here.
I'm going to hit the escape key now.
And now we're back to our original view.
So I'm going to create this very simple kind of coffee table here.
It's got woodgrain for the legs and frame and then it's got this formica finish.
And I think what I want to do is use two different materials and two different U-V maps and yet keep
it all one object.
So let's give that a try.
I'm going to go over to a brand new layer here and let's just begin creating this coffee table.
It looks like it's pretty straightforward.
It's just some cubes so let's go ahead and create a cube here.
I'm going to.
First off.
Go to face mode and select the top face and the bottom face and go ahead and delete these with X and
delete faces.
And now I can begin working on the legs here.
I'm going to scale that down a bit and maybe make it a little bit taller with s and Z and this can be
one of our legs.
I'll bring it up just above the grid here because it looks like it's got little feet underneath there
that's holding it up off the ground.
So that can be one of our legs.
Maybe I'll move this over just to get a sense of the size of it.
Let's say something like that and let's work on this piece right up here on top or create another cube
you can do that with shift a and then select cube from the menu here and I'll press S Z to scale it
down.
And let's scale it out in the y s y maybe something like this.
Let's see what we have here yeah maybe a little bit longer x y something like that maybe.
And I'll bring this up to about where we want it.
Something like that.
And I'll go ahead and shrink this leg down a bit.
I just like to try and get a sense of the scale and proportion of the objects as I'm going here.
So I'm just going to select these edges here and bring them down a bit like that
and let's see how this looks if I slide that in here.
All right.
I think that's beginning to look OK I think I want to bring the scale or the diameter of the leg down
a bit.
So to do that I'm going to hit the ESC key and then I do not want to scale it in the z axis or press
shift Z.
And now I'm only scaling in the x and y.
Let's bring it down about like that.
Now for this top piece it looks as if we've got an angled bit right here.
Now I could insert an edge loop and scale the face down on the top.
Of course there's always multiple ways to do things.
But let's work with a new tool here for this course.
Let's go ahead and press alt and click and shift and click these edges around here.
And now we can bevel this.
So if I press control B and drag with the mouse you can see I can bevel this but that bevels looking
awfully flat.
I'm not getting it.
So it's angled in like this.
See how it's just staying on top.
So what the problem is once again is that we don't have uniform scale for our object.
If we come over here to the properties panel by pressing the in key and bring up here we can see that
we do not have uniform scale.
So let's just come over here and press control a.
When we're in Object mode and go ahead and apply the scale.
Now if we tab back into edit mode with these edges still selected I'll press control B and pull out
with the mouse and you can see now we're getting more of the effect that we want and I'm going to press
the shift key as I drag just to make the move and a little bit slower.
So something like that.
So once again having uniform scale is an important thing for many of the tools that you're going to
be using and Blendr.
So we've got that now we need a little piece on the top.
There's just this little extra piece right up here that's that for Mike a bit that we're going to have
a new material for.
So I'll just select this one face of duplicate it with shift d hit enter and Nauman to drag up just
a little bit and where it is going to scale it in just a hair and we go.
And then I can press e to extrude and extrude on down now look at what happened again here remember
with the arm of the couch we had the problem with our normal's they were flipped.
Well we're having the same issue here as well.
I mean just scale this in a bit in the X. It looks like I could scaled in just a bit here.
Yeah I like that.
So we've got this problem with this part of the table.
I'm going to hover over a face and press the L key to slide the whole thing the whole piece even though
that's part of the rest of the object of the top of the table here pressing the L key only selects the
linked components.
So I can then press control in.
And now all of the normals are facing the proper direction they're facing out.
Now I don't need that face underneath here so I could probably press shift h to isolate it.
Select that one face x and delete faces and now press alt h to bring everything else back.
All right.
So now we've got the table top with that little formica top thing there.
We also need this piece right here.
Let's take a look at creating that.
Once again I'll just come over to the Create tab impress cube and let's scale it down with the key scale
and the x with x and x and let's move it up into place.
I think I'll hit the one key no let's go with the three key here and the five key just so I can come
into orthographic view and take a look at this all kind of arrange these properly something like that
this piece looks like maybe it could be a little bit smaller.
And then I'll scale in the y s y scale that out there we go.
I can take this piece now and duplicate it.
Shift d the y key and drag it over here.
Here we go.
Now select this piece here and move it forward in line with the legs of the table.
Hit the three key note the one key and move this over.
Hit the Zeek here to go to wireframe and let's just put it right about there.
All right so now we can select these three pieces.
Go to our top view with the seven key and shift D and hit the x key and move these over something like
that.
And I'll just take this one and move it over just a little bit like that.
There we go.
Now we should create the pieces on the ends so I'll duplicate this and hit enter drag it into the center
a bit and then I'll rotate it with our z 9:0 and move this up and scale it in and the x x x and then
we just need to put it down here shifty and the Y key and move it down here.
I think I'd like little feet on the bottom here so maybe I'll create a cylinder.
We don't need 32 sides to it maybe I'll just take it down to oh I don't know eight and we don't need
the Caps filled so I'll change that to nothing and now scale this down.
Pretty small here.
And let's take a look.
You know we go hit the one key on the numpad to go to the front view.
And I'll bring this up just a smidge to there.
And I just want this underneath here just in case it's ever seen.
It's probably not going to be seen really.
I'll press shift D and X and drag it over to the other side.
Go to the top view with the seven key and let's put these in place right down here.
Shifty why and put these in place right over here.
OK.
All right so now that we have our coffee table let's go ahead and quickly U-V map it.
So I'll come back over here to the U-V editing screen layout.
I'll select everything and frame it up with the period key.
So let's begin now that everything's selected Let's begin by just joining everything into one object
because we want this piece to be all one object home and press control J.
And now everything is on one object.
I want the pivot point of this object to be in the center here right on the floor of the grid.
And this is one of the reasons why I tend to model things right in the center of the grid.
It's really easy to do things like mirroring to snap the pivot point to the 3D cursor in the center
of the grid so everything is centered and the pivot point is where it needs to be going to hit the T
key and open up the Tools panel here.
And I just want to go up to the Tools tab and choose set origin to 3D cursor so that makes sure that
the pivot point of this object is on the floor in the center so it's easy to move around a tab into
edit mode and let's begin U-V mapping this object.
We could probably just select the inside edges of these legs here and add seams to these here control
the mark seam.
We could probably do the same for our little tiny feet down here just select an interior edge of each
of these.
And Marcus seem like that and these pieces here these crossbars we don't really need the end pieces
for these parts.
Now do we.
So if I hit the Z key to go to wireframe and then I'm going to control tab and hit the three key to
go to face mode.
These faces right in here.
They're not going to be seen so I'm just going to select those and hit X and delete faces because frankly
I don't want to be mad at them if they're not going to be seen.
Get rid of those.
That makes my life a lot easier because now I can just come in here and select these edges.
On the inside bottom and just mark a seam and there we go and we're done with those.
Now for this top piece we could probably try all clicking this edge say and each one of these alt shift
click the is and probably Mark seems right along here.
Let's try that.
And I think maybe I'll mark ISim all the way around here as well just to split out that bottom piece
I think I'll split out that top piece too.
Why not.
I'm going to go ahead and mark a scene here and then split these out as well.
And we go that makes my life a little easier.
And that top piece let me just see how that works.
Since we don't have a bottom to it it may just open up just fine in the mapping.
We'll see.
So I'll hit the A key.
To select everything.
I'll press you.
Now wait a minute.
I didn't check the scale so let's do that.
I'll hit escape.
Hit the in key and tab back into object mode and sure enough let me apply the transforms for the scale
here control a scale.
All right.
Now let's go back in to edit mode select everything hit the key and unwrap.
All right that's not looking too bad.
I'll switch from conformable to angle based and see what I get.
Yeah I can let conformal a little better.
Well that's not too bad but I'd kind of like all of these pieces going in the same direction because
it's going to be easier for me to lay down woodgrain and have it all go in a certain direction.
If all of these are aligned the same.
So to maximize this screen here all hover over it and press control up arrow and then.
Now I can work with just the U-V map here.
So I think what I want to do is take everything and make it go in the same direction.
So maybe I want it all to be up and down.
So I'll take something like this and press our 9:0.
And now we can begin arranging the is so something like this are 9:0 And that's kind of why I broke
the top of the coffee table apart from the beveled sides so I could turn these in the same direction
as everything else.
And for this it looks like here is that top part.
This I think is going to be its own U-V maps so I'm going to move this aside and these pieces here are
the underside and the top of the coffee table.
But they're really not going to be seen very much at all.
So I'm going to shrink these down quite a bit and rotate them 90 degrees and I'll put them with all
of these.
Select the key and click and drag.
To select all of these.
And let's see how this works.
I'm going to scale these up some and try and maximize the resolution within this zero to one the space.
Let me try and put these in place in here.
There we go.
All right.
Oh and I want to put these guys right in here.
On this map as well I put them over here.
Why not.
Here we go.
I'll press control up arrow to go back to my normal view.
So there is the U-V map of the woodgrain part.
So I will go ahead and create the material for the woodgrain or go to object mode.
New material called this coffee table would and now tab into edit mode and just select this top piece
this formica piece I'll hit the L key on one of the edges right there and I will create a new material
slot A new material and I'll call this coffee table top mainly because I don't know how to spell formica
so now I want to assign these faces to that coffee table top material.
So with that slight it all just click a sign.
And now if I click de-select it will de-select that I click select it will select that and then if I
select the word in hit select it will select that.
So notice when I select everything in the table would material we see only the U-V map for that part.
And if I de-select that and like the coffee table and hit select We only see the U.V. map of this.
Now I can take this and move it over and scale it up.
So it fits in the whole U-V map there.
Now when we take these in the unity it will see these as two separate materials with two separate U-V
maps.
So in the next video what let's do is go ahead and export the U.V. map out to photoshop texture it and
then take it into unity and test this.